1. You have two options. If you just want to search the short descriptions of
each function, you can use man -k *keyword here*. If you want to search the
whole man page of each function for the keyword, you can use man -K *keyword
here*.

2. cp: /usr/bin/cp wc: /usr/bin/wc

3. The program names are: X: starts a new server w: shows you everyone who is
logged on and what they are doing [: Used in condition testing for shell scripts

4. /etc/alternatives/emacs (ls /usr/bin/emacs -l)

5. g+s gives everyone trying to access the file the permission assigned to the
   group (setgid).  o-x removes execution writes for everyone "others", or users
   who are not the owner of the file or members of the group.

6. find -mtime -22

7. Directories that have been modified over the last 3 weeks: .  ./Desktop
./Desktop/desktop.ini ./Desktop/Google Chrome.lnk ./Documents
./Documents/desktop.ini ./Downloads ./Downloads/desktop.ini ./.cache/abrt
./.cache/abrt/lastnotification ./.bash_history ./.emacs.d/auto-save-list
./.emacs.d/auto-save-list/.saves-8189-lnxsrv01.seas.ucla.edu~
./.emacs.d/auto-save-list/.saves-8187-lnxsrv01.seas.ucla.edu~
./.emacs.d/auto-save-list/.saves-46967-lnxsrv09.seas.ucla.edu~ ./blah2-new
./.Xauthority ./CS35L ./CS35L/assignment1 ./CS35L/assignment1/.#ans1.txt
./CS35L/assignment1/ans1.txt ./CS35L/assignment1/ans1.txt~
./CS35L/assignment1/#ans1.txt# ./blah1-hard ./blah2-soft ./blah1-new
./#rats2.cpp#

8. 350 linux-server-5 (my TA said this was OK to use)

9. error.py (path: ./python2.7/site-packages/pyasn1/type/error.py)

10. The locale command gets its data from the settings of the environment
variables that control the locale. It also takes in implied values, which aren't
set by the environment. More specifically, locale gets its data from the locale
definition file.

11. The commands that have sort in their name are: Buffer-menu-sort sort-columns
    sort-fields sort-lines sort-numeric-fields sort-pages sort-paragraphs


12. C-M-a: Takes you to the top of the "defun", or function definition, you're
    at (runs command beginning-of-defun) C-M-b: Takes you to the beginning of
    the previous word C-M-c: Ends recursive edit C-M-d: Takes you to first
    character inside a parenthesis; moves down in parentheses C-M-e: Takes you
    to the end of "defun", or the function definition C-M-f: Takes you to the
    next non-alphabetic character C-M-g: Quits whatever process you're doing
    C-M-h: Selects the whole document (or at least from where the mark was set
    downwards)

13. The command keyboard-quit is bound to C-g: Signal a `quit' condition.
    During execution of Lisp code, this character causes a quit directly.  At
    top-level, as an editor command, this simply beeps.

14. yank is bound to C-y, <S-insertchar>, <S-insert>, <menu-bar> <edit> <paste>:

Reinsert ("paste") the last stretch of killed text.  More precisely, reinsert
the most recent kill, which is the stretch of killed text most recently killed
OR yanked.  Put point at the end, and set mark at the beginning without
activating it.  With just C-u as argument, put point at beginning, and mark at
end.  With argument N, reinsert the Nth most recent kill.

15. Emacs dired's output differs from ls -li's in the following ways.  1) The
first lines of output communicate different information, emacs dired's being
more in-depth.  2) Emacs dired's output has two directories in the beginning
that are not displayed in ls -l.  emacs dired: total used in directory 350840
available 11623156 dr-xr-xr-x.  2 root root 81920 Sep 16 13:15 .  drwxr-xr-x.
16 root root 4096 Dec 5 2016 ..  -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 41496 Jun 30 2016 [
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 11368 Feb 25 2014 411toppm -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 107856
Mar 2 2017 a2p


ls -l: total 350752 -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 41496 Jun 30 2016 [ -rwxr-xr-x 1 root
root 11368 Feb 25 2014 411toppm -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 107856 Mar 2 2017 a2p
