Joel George
004786402

Lab 3:



1. I created a temporary folder called coreutilsInstall, and then I used 'wget
ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/coreutils/coreutils-7.6.tar.gz' to download the zip file
into that directory. I used tar -xzvf coreutils-7.6.tar.gz to unzip the
coreutils zip file. I used those tags because -x tells the command to extract
from the zip file, -z tells the command what type of zip file this is, -v tells
the command to list every file processed so I can see what has been extracted,
and -f so that everything is stored into a folder with the same name as the zip
file.

2. Next, I set my locale in that directory to the faulty one: 'en_US.UTF-8'
using the given 'export LC_ALL='en_US.UTF-8'' command. Then, I ran readlink -f
coreutilsInstall to get the absolute path of the temporary folder I was in.  I
had trouble with this initially, because I ran readlink while I was in the
coreutils-7.6 director, so the absolute path that was output was for that
folder, instead of the parent directory. I wanted to install it in the parent
directory, so I navigated to the '~' directory and then ran readlink. It worked
that time. After reading the INSTALL file in the subdirectory coreutils-7.6 of
coreutilsInstall, I ran ./configure
--prefix=/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall, so that coreutils would be
installed in the coreutilsInstall directory.

Then, I ran make and make install, so the buggy ls would be installed in the
parent directory.

3. When I ran ./bin/-ls l, I saw the error. Instead of outputting:

drwxr-xr-x 2 george maugrad 8192 Oct 24 13:55 bin drwxr-xr-x 15 george maugrad
8192 Oct 24 13:54 coreutils-7.6 -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 10014650 Oct 24
13:06 coreutils-7.6.tar.gz drwxr-xr-x 3 george maugrad 4096 Oct 24 13:55 lib
drwxr-xr-x 5 george maugrad 4096 Oct 24 13:55 share

The output was:

drwxr-xr-x 2 george maugrad 8192 2017-10-24 13:55 bin drwxr-xr-x 15 george
maugrad 8192 2017-10-24 13:54 coreutils-7.6 -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 10014650
2017-10-24 13:06 coreutils-7.6.tar.gz drwxr-xr-x 3 george maugrad 4096
2017-10-24 13:55 lib drwxr-xr-x 5 george maugrad 4096 2017-10-24 13:55 share

The dates were in the wrong format.

4. TODO: what does each command do?  I then went to the website which had the
patch, copied the patch into a file called patch_file, and then ran the command
patch -p1 < patch_file. I set pnum to p1 because each file name had either a
leading a/ or b/, and since a and b aren't directories here, I removed
them. They were unnecessary too, because all of the referenced files were
contained within the working directory.

When I first ran the command, I got an error:

**** malformed patch at line 10: outline -*-

Because emacs performs auto-space arrangement, it may have corrupted my patch
file, so I deleted that file and created a new one in vim. I then ran the patch
command again, and when the command asked me:

Reversed (or previously applied) patch detected!  Assume -R? [n]

I input y.

The patch ran smoothly after:

patching file NEWS Hunk #1 succeeded at 397 with fuzz 2 (offset 365 lines).
patching file src/ls.c Reversed (or previously applied) patch detected!  Assume
-R? [n] y Hunk #1 succeeded at 2013 (offset -1 lines).  Hunk #2 succeeded at
2029 (offset -1 lines).


5. Then, in the coreutils-7.6 directory, I ran make:

make all-recursive make[1]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6' Making all in lib
make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib' make
all-recursive make[3]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib' make[4]:
Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib' make[4]: Leaving
directory `/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib'
make[3]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib' make[2]: Leaving
directory `/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/lib' Making
all in src make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/src' make all-am
make[3]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/src' CC ls.o CCLD dir
CCLD vdir CCLD ls make[3]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/src' make[2]: Leaving
directory `/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/src' Making
all in doc make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/doc' make[2]: Nothing
to be done for `all'.  make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/doc' Making all in
man make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/man' GEN dir.1 GEN
vdir.1 GEN ls.1 make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/man' Making all in po
make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/po' make[2]: Nothing
to be done for `all'.  make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/po' Making all in
tests make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/tests' make[2]:
Nothing to be done for `all'.  make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/tests' Making all in
gnulib-tests make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests' make
all-recursive make[3]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests'
make[4]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests'
make[4]: Nothing to be done for `all-am'.  make[4]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests'
make[3]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests'
make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6/gnulib-tests'
make[2]: Entering directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6' make[2]: Nothing to
be done for `all-am'.  make[2]: Leaving directory
`/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6' make[1]: Leaving
directory `/w/home.14/ma/ugrad/george/coreutilsInstall/coreutils-7.6'

The command make-all essentially initiates the recompilation of all the files
affected by the edit in ls.c. The purpose of the make command is to greatly
optimize recompilation of big projects, by focussing on recompiling only the
files that were impacted by the modifications made to the project files. In this
case, one of the most important make commands was "Making all in src", because
the src files (in particular ls.c) need to be recompiled, as they were directly
modified by me. More specifically, the command make all-am was ran in that
directory, and it directly recompiled ls and the affected files. Similarly, the
command executed while "Making all in man" was important too. The rest of the
output is non-essential; it traces the path of the program, but not the commands
executed in those areas are not as important as those executed in the src
directory and man directory.

6. I then navigated to my home directory and ran the command for the buggy ls,
just to make sure it hadn't been overwritten:

./bin/ls -l

Output:

drwxr-xr-x 2 george maugrad 8192 2017-10-24 14:39 bin drwxr-xr-x 13 george
maugrad 8192 2017-10-24 16:09 coreutils-7.6 -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 10014650
2017-10-24 15:46 coreutils-7.6.tar.gz drwxr-xr-x 3 george maugrad 4096
2017-10-24 16:08 lib drwxr-xr-x 5 george maugrad 4096 2017-10-24 13:55 share

I then ran this command, to check the modified version of ls:

./coreutils-7.6/src/ls -l

Output:

drwxr-xr-x 2 george maugrad 8192 Oct 24 14:39 bin drwxr-xr-x 13 george maugrad
8192 Oct 24 16:09 coreutils-7.6 -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 10014650 Oct 24
15:46 coreutils-7.6.tar.gz drwxr-xr-x 3 george maugrad 4096 Oct 24 16:08 lib
drwxr-xr-x 5 george maugrad 4096 Oct 24 13:55 share

The dates have been corrected.

I then created a file that was at least one year old (it is technically 37 years
old); I used the following command to create a file whose modification/creation
timestamp is January 3, 1980:

touch -t 8001031305 super_old_file

I also created a recent file by the command: touch recent_file

For the buggy ls, this was the output: ./bin/ls -l (I didn't include the other
entries): -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 0 2017-10-24 16:36 recent_file -rw-r--r--
1 george maugrad 0 1980-01-03 13:05 super_old_file

This is the output for the functioning ls command: ./coreutils-7.6/src/ls -l (I
didn't include the other entries): -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 0 Oct 24 16:36
recent_file -rw-r--r-- 1 george maugrad 0 Jan 3 1980 super_old_file

Q1. Technically, it wasn't necessary to remove the line
case_long_iso_time_style. The only reason this was there was because in the
original version of ls.c, there was a goto call to this line. However, the patch
removed that goto call. While the goto call was removed for functional reasons,
there was no real need, outside of keeping the code clean and clear, for that
line to be removed. The line still could've existed there; it simply wouldn't be
called by anything else in that file.
 
Q2. If my company adopts this patch, we first have to watch out for any other of
our applications that parses ls output, because if it is expecting the ISO
format, which apparently was the usual format for 4 years (as of Padraig Brady
writing in 2009), it might crash, produce undefined output when it receives the
traditional UNIX formatted dates, or result in other minor bugs. Also, for
languages where date format translations are not available, ISO will be output,
even though there may be month abbreviations that can be used. (i.e. Brady says
there is no translations from en_PH to tl_PH, even though Tagalog month
abbreviations do exist. 'LANG=tl_PH locale abmon' has the following month
abbreviations Ene;Peb;Mar;Abr;May;Hun;Hul;Ago;Sep;Okt;Nob;Dis). This patch
assumes that date format is related to the language rather than the country, so
in the example given, even though the Philippines and America have the same date
formats, this patch will output ISO for the Philippines instead of the
traditional UNIX format.


